Basic needs, services, and support | Metro State University
Skip to main content
Search metrostate.edu
Select a search option
metrostate.edu
Faculty and staff directory
Library OneSearch
Course Catalog
Basic needs, services, and support
Connecting with Metro State and community resources
Metro State University is committed to supporting the educational goals of its students and community. We are here to help you navigate the challenges and connect you with the support you need, whether in or out of the classroom.
You don’t have to do this alone. For help with navigating basic needs support and resources, please
email us
. If you are a current or incoming student who has dependent children, please reach out to our navigator/coordinator in the
Student Parent Center
who can serve as a resource.
Looking for advising, tutoring, or other academic support?
Browse academic success services
instead.
Mantra Health: Virtual Mental Health and Wellness
We’re thrilled to partner with digital mental health provider Mantra Health to bring students diverse, high-quality mental health support via Mantra's Student Care Hub. This all-in-one platform gives students access to a number of virtual services, including but not limited to:
Single Stop—a screening tool that can help students access support, including SNAP, housing assistance, and even childcare assistance
Togetherall—our peer support program
Clinical counseling, including 12 free clinical mental health appointments every academic year
Mantra's Student Care Hub
(only for students) is the one-stop access point where students can find and access
all
these services.
211 Basic Needs Resource Hub
United Way 211
provides
free and confidential
health and human services information. They are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to connect you with the resources and information you need. If you’re looking for information about services available in your community for you or a loved one, they can help.
Text your zip code to 898211 (for example: text 55106 to 898211, if you live near the Saint Paul campus) or call 211 (toll free at 800.543.7709) to speak with one of their highly trained information and referral specialists. Your call is completely confidential, and they have call menus in English, Spanish, and Hmong. Interpreters are also available for any language.
Visit the 211 website
to learn more or to explore resources and support that may be available.
Basic Needs Resources
The information provided includes university and community resources related to help with food, housing, transportation, childcare, utilities, emergency grants, and mental health.
Child care resources
Resources and support for students in need of child care.
Community health resources
Dental and health care resources for students.
Emergency grant resources
Information regarding emergency grants available to students.
Food resources
Information on university and community food support resources.
Housing resources
Information on housing support and services available to students.
Mental health and wellness resources
Information on mental health support and services available to students.
Transportation services
Information on transportation support and services available to students.
Utilities, technology, and internet access resources
Information on supports and services to assist students with utility costs, technology access, and internet access.
Community
African and African American Support Services
Services that facilitate the academic success of incoming, current and graduating African and African American students.
Alumni Association
Continue to learn and engage with the university community after you’ve graduated.
American Indian Student Services
Support and programs for the academic, personal and professional success of American Indian students.
Asian American Student Services
Helping Asian-American students balance life and education to persist and graduate.
Latinx and Undocumented Student Support Services
Programs and advocacy that facilitate academic success of students who identify as Latinx or undocumented.
LGBTQIA+ Student Services
Programs and advocacy for Metro State University’s LGBTQIA+ community.
The Landing
The Landing is a welcoming and inclusive space for students to connect, collaborate, do homework, and relax.
Veteran Services
Programs and support for veterans and students connected to the military.
Women’s Support Services
Find information about academic and personal support, as well as advocacy and education for women.
Life on and off campus
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Program
The Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Program provides information and resources to help university community members educate themselves and make responsible choices.
Career Center
The Career Center helps students develop their careers with tools, guidance and opportunities.
Collegiate Recovery Program
Provides support and resources for students who have challenges with substance use or other behavioral addictions.
Counseling Services
Support is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week through the MetroCares 24/7 Support Line: 651.793.1568.
Fitness Center
A space for students, staff and faculty to focus on physical well-being.
Lactation support and resources
Spaces and resources for pregnant or lactating students.
Metro State food pantry
The Metro State food pantry provides perishable and non-perishable groceries and grab-and-go food to students.
Student Life and Leadership Development
SLLD provides social, cultural, intellectual and recreational programs for students.
Student Parent Center
Supports and connects students and their families with campus and community resources
Telehealth Services
An online healthcare portal available to enrolled students 24/7
University services
Bookstore
Here’s where you can get books, supplies, electronics, university swag and snacks.
Financial aid
Everything you need to know to apply for and manage your financial aid.
Gateway
Your first stop for questions about financial aid, registration, tuition payment and more.
ID cards
How to get and use your Metro State University identification card.
International Student Services
Advises and supports international students with academic, immigration, cultural, financial and personal issues.
Judicial Affairs
Policies and procedures to manage complaints of violations against the Student Code of Conduct.
Security escorts
How to request an escort from a uniformed university security officer
Tech help
On-campus WiFi and computer lab locations plus basic help for student email accounts, eServices and D2L Brightspace.
TRIO Student Support Services
TRIO Student Support Services provides enhanced retention services to Metro State University undergraduate students who are first-generation, from low-income backgrounds, and/or have a disability.
Veteran Services
Programs and support for veterans and students connected to the military