Registration and course catalog | Metro State University
Skip to main content
Search metrostate.edu
Select a search option
metrostate.edu
Faculty and staff directory
Library OneSearch
Course Catalog
Registration and course catalog
Course
catalog
Descriptions of all courses in the active curriculum (includes courses not scheduled for the current semester).
No log in required.
Course schedule
search
Find scheduled courses for current and upcoming semesters.
No log in required.
Register for
classes
Enrolled students: Register for classes, modify your schedule and manage your waitlist on eServices.
StarID login required.
Registrar's Office Form Finder
Academic Forgiveness
Choosing classes
Delivery method (type) of courses
Online courses
Making registration changes
Registration appeals
Common Market Passport
Registration holds
Repeating a course
Waitlist and course cancellations
Immunization record form
Grading options
Satisfactory academic progress: Academic standing
Grade Level Progression
Course completion deadlines
Enrollment in online courses for students outside Minnesota
All registrations should be completed online through your student
eServices
. Gateway Student Services staff is available to answer your questions but is not able to process registrations.
Not a student yet? Get started and
apply today
by
selecting this link
Spring 2027: January 11–May 3, 2027
Summer 2027: May 15–August 13, 2027
Fall 2027: August 21–December 12, 2027
Spring priority registration begins Monday, October 19, 2026
Spring 2027 class schedule available in eServices Thursday, October 1, 2026
Summer/Fall 2027 class schedule available in eServices first week of March, 2027
Spring 2027 Registration Windows based on completed and transfer credits (date will display in eServices):
Monday, October 19, 8 a.m. Graduate Students
Monday, October 19, 8 a.m. Select Cohort Students
Monday, October 19, 8 a.m. 120+ CR
Thursday, October 22, 8 a.m. 90–119 CR
Tuesday, October 27, 8 a.m. 60–89 CR
Friday, October 30, 8 a.m. 0–59 CR
Spring Visiting Student Registration Opens Monday, November 9, 8 a.m.
Spring Registration for Senior Citizens (62 and older) opens Tuesday January 12, 8 a.m.
Course Delivery Method Descriptions
Find your advisor
Your assigned academic advisor is listed on the top of your degree audit report (DARs). Also, the list of
Undergraduate Advising Centers for each college or school
is available for you to view.
Preparing to register
Plan ahead for the next registration period about one month after current classes start—when registration starts, advisors are often overloaded and some courses fill quickly.
Successful registration
Know your registration window:
Register as soon as possible after your window opens. Registration windows are assigned based on the number of completed credits you've earned.
Check for holds:
In eServices, click on "Registration Holds" in the menu on the left.
Keep requirements in mind:
Go over your degree audit report and clarify what course requirements are necessary for your major and for graduation.
Financial aid and tuition:
Have a payment plan in place and understand any restrictions or requirements you may have for financial aid.
Placement assessments:
Your results will help you select the math and writing courses to fulfill graduation requirements that are best for you.
Waitlists:
If a course is full, add yourself to the wait list.
Registration mistakes to avoid
Don't take too many courses because you want to finish your degree quickly. If you withdraw or fail because you don't have enough study time, you'll wasting time and money. Pace yourself.
Don't ignore prerequisites. If you don't have the right preparation for a course, don't register for it.
Don't take a course you already completed elsewhere.
Don't repeat a course if you don't need to.
Don't take courses that don't count toward fulfilling your degree's requirements.
Related services
Student services + support directory
Test options
The College Board Accuplacer is designated as the system-endorsed placement instrument for assessment of reading comprehension, written English and math.